---
title: "Environmental Monitoring: An Exploratory Workshop"
date: 2023-07-10
permalink: /posts/2023/07/10/wimobo/
excerpt: "Innovative algorithms and machine learning techniques take center stage at the Environmental Monitoring event."
tags:
  - academy
---

A remarkable workshop titled ["Environmental Monitoring: An Exploratory Workshop"](https://wimoboproject.com/index.php/event/) recently took place at the prestigious [Royal Spanish Academy of Sciences (RAC)](https://rac.es/). The event brought together experts in environmental science and maritime transportation to tackle ecological challenges faced by the blue economy and find innovative weather routing solutions.

The workshop kicked off with an inspiring keynote by  [David Gómez-Ullate](https://www.ie.edu/university/about/faculty/david-gomez-ullate/), a leading figure in our weather routing project. He emphasized how optimizing navigation through meteorology can positively impact ecological sustainability in maritime transportation.

One of the highlights was Daniel's presentation, where he introduced the Hybrid Search (HS) algorithm for weather routing. This innovative mathematical approach addresses the challenging Zermelo's Navigation Problem by combining optimal path search methods with variational refinement. Real-world examples demonstrated how this application of mathematics can significantly enhance navigation capabilities and support the much-needed ecological transition in maritime transportation.

The workshop also featured other brilliant speakers. José Enrique Gutiérrez shared insights on leveraging machine learning to improve ship performance and safety. Fernando Cañavate presented research on training Hamiltonian neural networks to effectively dissipate energy in dynamic systems. Additionally, Rafael Ballester-Ripoll introduced an alternative solution for weather routing based on evolutionary algorithms and Bézier curves.

The event was made possible through the kind invitation of David Martin de Diego and Alexandre Anahory. It provided a valuable platform for knowledge exchange and collaboration, fostering innovation and driving positive contributions to the blue economy.

Generous financial support from the [BBVA Foundation](https://www.fbbva.es/) played a crucial role in the workshop's success, demonstrating their commitment to environmental research and sustainability.

The organizers express gratitude to the attendees, colleagues, and the entire organizing committee for their enthusiastic participation, making the "Environmental Monitoring: An Exploratory Workshop" an unforgettable experience.

[IE researchers at the conference](https://weather-routing-research.github.io/images/230-07-10-wimobo.JPEG)

For more updates and exciting developments in environmental monitoring and the blue economy, stay tuned to the project's blog. This workshop has paved the way for future collaborations and groundbreaking solutions that will lead us towards a more sustainable and ecologically conscious future.